How to develop a project priorities matrix
Here are 6 steps to follow when developing a project priorities matrix:

1. Meet with everyone involved

To develop the project priorities matrix, you should first meet with the entire project team, if possible, or at least any involved managers, stakeholders or anyone who has project oversight and the power to make priority decisions. It might be helpful to have those involved fill out their own ideal project priorities matrix. Then, you can review them all to create the overall project priorities matrix. You don't need everyone to agree on the priorities. Those with the most authority over the project should make the final decision about which matrix to use.

2. Choose which element to constrain

The next step is to determine which of the three project elements will be constrained with a firm limitation such as:
Constrained cost: The project’s budget cannot exceed a certain amount. 
Constrained time: The project cannot go past a certain completion or delivery date.
Constrained scope: The project has a limited scope set by its stakeholders.

3. Decide which element to accept

Next, you need to choose which element to accept. By accepting an element, the team is making it a priority to do what needs to be done even if it is outside the original project parameters. 
Accepted cost: The team can spend whatever if necessary to achieve the other two elements. 
Accepted time: The team can take whatever time is necessary to complete or deliver the project. 
Accepted scope: The team can determine the scope for the project without limitations.

4. Choose which element to enhance
You now choose which element will be enhanced beyond its basic goal. 
Enhanced cost: The team will have a project goal with an aim to spend less than that. 
Enhanced time: The team might have a final deadline but be encouraged to finish the project early. 
Enhanced scope: Finally, if the scope is the priority to be enhanced, the team might have a basic scope but be trying to add to the scope to include other items.
Related: FAQ: Project Management Basics

5. Create the matrix showing the priorities
Once the team has reached a general consensus on where to place each priority, you can create the final project priority matrix. The matrix is simple to create and fill in, yet it provides a lot of useful information to those managing and working on the project.
The actual matrix might look like this:
